First of all, JForum3 is under heavy development, and not all classes
may compile. That's not exactly a problem, as long as the dependencies
of the classes that are supposed to work are compiling. The development
is being incremental, so, for example, if we are working on posting new 
messages but attachments aren't necessary at the moment, then we dont' care if
AttachmentsDAO.java is right or not.

1) Building
It is recommended that you use an IDE, like Eclipse, Netbeans or InteliJ IDEA. 
However, there is a build.xml file that runs the compiler task, putting the
classes and resource files there they should be. 

2) What do you need
You'll need MySQL, running on localhost, with user "root" and password "root", 
and a database named "jforum3". Of course that you can change spring-config.xml, 
but as it is a versioned file, it's better to not change database settings 
for now. Later we can try to find a way to use a custom file per developer. 

Also, please use Tomcat 6+. It may work in 5.5, but all involved developers
are using version 6. 

3) Setting up Eclipse (or any other IDE)
Here's described how to setup Eclipse, but you can adapt it to any IDE you 
may want to use. 

First, import the project from svn if you haven't done it yet. I use the 
name "JForum3" for the project. Then install a plugin for Tomcat, in 
case you don't have any. One very good and easy to use is Sysedo's, which
can be downloaded from http://www.eclipsetotale.com/tomcatPlugin.html. Just
unpack it under the <Eclipse dir>/plugins folder, and restart Eclipse. Next,
you have to configure it, at Preferences -> Tomcat. Set up the Tomcat version
and Tomcat's home directory. 

As the projected checked out from svn already have the plugin configuration
for JForum3, all you have to do is to create your context file definition. For that, 
right click with the mouse in project's name -> Tomcat -> Update context definition, 
and that's it for Tomcat configuration. The context name is "/jforum3". 

4) Database setup
Import the script webapps/WEB-INF/jforumConfig/database/mysql/mysql_db_struct.sql
into your MySQL, and then the file mysql_data_dump.sql. If any error occurs, please
report it in the forum. 

That's all, you're good to go. 